# Owmail
### Video Demo: https://youtu.be/ztL8lEsTKsM
### Description:
Owmail is a web-based email client. I created it as a personal alternative to platforms like Gmail, but on a small scale.
The static files contain styles.css(which was a pain to write) that contains all styles used. It also contains a favicon that I use for the site. The templates file contains all 8 HTML pages. I used layout.html to have block bodies that I could use everywhere. It also created a navbar that stayed consistent across all webpages. There is a signup.html file that allows users to enter a form and create an owmail account. Then there is login.html, that lets users sign into their accounts. Error.html lets the Flask return a custom error if something goes wrong. Homepage.html displays some text asking users to create an account or login. Full_email.html is a file that displays SQL email data in an email format. Inbox.html displays all of your emails in a tabular format. Send.html is the page that lets you fill out some text boxes and send an email. I'm new to HTML and CSS, so it was very hard to learn. Styling languages aren't as intuitive and get really messy, really fast. Luckily Bootstrap is really helpful, but I still spent a really long time tinkering with pixel limits. If I knew javascript it would probably be easier, but I didn't, so I stuck to stackoverflow for CSS help.

App. py is the main program. In total there are 8 routes. I was originally going to use an SMTP server to send emails, but I realized that maintaining that server would use a lot of resources, so I decided to use Sendgrid. Sendgrid uses an api key to send emails, and luckily they have a lot of documentation about integrating the api into python. In the send route, you send an email by using the api key, fetching the users address, and using requests to check what the contents and recipients of the email are. Then it compiles a Sendgrid Mail object, and the Sendgrid servers deliver the email. Because I was using VSCode, I didn't have access to the PHPliteadmin on CS50 Ide, so I had to learn how to integrate sqlite with python. After testing on a localhost, I set up a Linode, a web hosting site, and moved my project over. First I had to look through many pages of documentation to set up SSH access and Linode config files. Then I used the scp command to shift my files over, and made sure localhost worked through SSH Linode access. Then I decided to use Nginx as a WSGI server, so that it could it act as a proxy. What I realized however, was that Nginx only served static files, and that I would need to use Gunicorn for the python code. This involved a lot more config files and I had to use Nano to edit them, which I had never done before. I also learned a lot about the command line, and had to use the sudo command a lot. I also accidentally got locked out of my Linode when I disabled the Linode access port from my firewall. Luckily, Linode has a backup access which I used to get back in. Finally, after many hours of looking through the internet, I got it to work. Helper_functions.py has only 2 functions, login_required, which we learned for the Finance pset, and error, which let me handle user-server errors. Requirements.txt was a file that let me use pip to install all dependencies when shifting from VScode to Linode. Theres also a venv file, which is what the program is run on.